no I get it I'm complying I'm under
arrest it's fine I'm not resisting I'm
complying no do what you have to do I
get it
yes yes no I understand that's what you
think you think I've broken the law
I disagree but do what you have to do
I'm not resisting
yes no it's fine
I'm fully compliant let's go let's do
what you need to do take me to The Paddy
Wagon take me down to the station that's
fine
I'm perfectly well complying I'm under
arrest I get it
so that was all very dramatic
what on Earth is going on
this is a PSA for how to be arrested but
only under certain circumstances
I've had experience with arrest never on
the receiving end mind you I've never
been arrested myself but I have arrested
many people over many years as a mall
copper a security guard something I've
mentioned increasingly on the podcast
usually just for minor crimes you know
trespass was the most common thing you'd
ask people to leave the shopping center
and they'd refuse to or second most
common and related to the first was shop
stealing that was very common assaults
now and again minor violence of that
sort weapons involve that kind of thing
so anyway I've arrested people but I've
never arrested anyone for what they've
said and I was insulted a lot and called
all sorts of horrible names that's what
you get as a security guard in certain
places now putting all of that aside
there are better and worse ways to get
arrested now yes I know I know many such
PSAs like this have been done before Sam
Harris has done you know half a podcast
on how to get arrested and he's all
about just comply and I completely agree
with all of that but I want to add
something and only in certain
circumstances and only in certain
countries like Australia and the UK this
doesn't come up in America for reasons
that will become obvious quite shortly
getting arrested is stressful and so
trying to remember what to do under
duress can be hard I get that so it's
about practice being ready
because I'm ready now and I never
thought I could possibly get arrested
but actually things have changed of
course this is not legal advice you
should speak to a lawyer who's probably
going to tell you don't do what that
silly podcaster is telling you what to
do in almost all jurisdictions you have
the right to remain silent so perhaps do
that I'm speaking for myself here and
for me I'd wave that right to silence
but just in this particular case you'll
see why in a moment then you can decide
for yourself I should say again this is
an Australian issue and a New Zealand
issue and a United Kingdom issue so far
as I can tell but again it's a PSA which
doesn't constitute legal advice so you
may have heard of the lesbian Nana Saga
this is where a young girl in distress
has referred to a female police officer
as looking like her lesbian Nana she was
then arrested for homophobic remarks
even though there's nothing homophobic
about being compared to a lesbian Nana
why you know you look like a lesbian
that's not homophobic if someone said I
looked a little bit gay fair enough
I'm not straight okay I get it it's not
hate speech it's nothing it's just a
label okay in Australia we've had
recently people being arrested for posts
on Facebook again for things they said
they weren't inciting violence they
weren't trying to drum up a mob of
people to go and attack someone it was
nothing like that they were disagreeing
with the policies of the government
that's all airing their grievances so to
speak in a public forum and arrested for
it this happened more than once in
Australia it was disgraceful it was an
abrogation of free speech Free Speech
which we don't really have in Australia
we just don't have it I shouldn't say
really have we just don't have it
there's a whole bunch of laws that
curtail the capacity to say whatever you
like it's only speech that you disagree
with that needs to be protected speech
that everyone agrees with doesn't need
protection because by definition
everyone's just able to say it because
it's something we all agree on it's the
disagreement stuff that needs to have
protections this is why I'm a great
supporter of the first amendment in the
United States I think that is a a very
useful heuristic putting aside all of my
concerns about enshrining certain things
forever in law but that one I'll give it
a pass so anyway it's a real possibility
in
Australia and New Zealand the United
Kingdom and certain other places of
course that are far far worse far worse
you know like China for just saying
stuff now in China I wouldn't suggest
doing this I'm talking about nations in
the western tradition Nations that have
free access to social media for example
nations with a reasonably robust
mainstream media Nations that otherwise
cleave in the direction of free speech
without having it ideally like the
United States or more ideally so if
you're just saying stuff all the time
like I do there is actually a real
possibility that something you've said
over hundreds of hours of public content
online that someone could find something
especially in the future given the way
that regulations and laws continue to be
enacted and I'm not a conspiracy
theorist I'm not a pessimist I I hope
that these things won't happen I have a
certain amount of confidence if you like
that the institutions in Australia would
prevent this but but there have been
mistakes made in the past already
enshrined there in law and who knows if
more of these won't happen who knows if
people won't go trolling through tweets
and Facebook posts and my podcasts as
sort of mundane and vanilla as they are
in terms of contentious issues things
could be found things could be found and
twisted and I could be arrested for what
I have said and so could many people if
they decided they didn't like you so I'm
personally worried about this I could go
to a jurisdiction where they've decided
that something I've posted at some point
in the past
means I'm worthy of arrest in that
particular jurisdiction I don't know I'm
not a lawyer who knows how things work
posting stuff objecting to covert
policies has caused people to be
arrested saying stuff that could be
considered hate speech like you look
like my lesbian Nana has caused people
to be arrested under violent
circumstances so let to try and avoid
the violence okay if the police are
going to initiate violence against you
don't be violent back that's the first
thing comply comply comply however in
certain circumstances wave your right to
silence and I think this is one area
where you can so as I began this unusual
podcast
I put my hands behind my back and I
complied don't object don't resist do
nothing like that but do say some things
with your hands behind your back as they
put the handcuffs on knowing full well
knowing full well they're recording with
their body cams these days and perhaps
if you're sufficiently prepared like I
guess I would be sitting here with my
camera if I knew the police were coming
if that informed me if the knock came on
the door I could start my camera very
quickly and I could record things as
well I could get recorded in front of
this very camera I could have my
microphones running and that kind of
thing many people have microphones they
have mobile phones just switch it on so
that you're heard so there's a recording
of what's going on so once you've begun
everything to cool everything down from
these police who are resting you for a
free speech offense for a speech offense
for a hate speech offense whatever it
happens to be you've just said something
or posted something and you've said I'm
complying I'm not resisting everything
that I said at the beginning at the
outset of this this podcast
then if you can remember say something
like the following because I'm trying to
commit the following to memory and I
think I've got it relatively down pat
I'm going to read the ideal version but
I think I could basically say something
like this were I arrested for something
I'd posted in the past I would say
something like because I'd probably come
to my house right that they'd want to
find me at home they know that I'm
sitting here making podcasts so why not
come here they're not going to try and
get me in the street they will come to
my address and I would let them in I
would comply with the law I'd comply
with every single legal requirement but
then I would go on to say once I've
complied once the handcuffs are on
because there's going to be some
distance between you know my home and
where the Paddy Wagon you know the
police vehicle where I get put into is
and then there'll be some distance for
them to drive to the police station then
I have some time at the police station
all of which is time where I could be
talking to the offices and I would talk
to the officers and I would be saying
stuff like this and I have more than
enough time to Rattle off all of these
points and I'd say something like this
okay take me away no I get it but the
fact is you do look like a lesbian Nana
or you know it is the case that X you
know whatever it happens to be it is the
case that the New South Wales government
policies on Covert are ridiculous I
don't agree with them the fact is that
what I said is my honestly held opinion
these were just words that I said it is
the case repeat the thing it is the case
repeat the thing just keep saying the
thing over and over again I mean you've
already committed the crime so to speak
so why not just keep saying it they're
going to be charged multiple times for
the same crime maybe you can be again
consult a lawyer but then I would
continue to say to the police officers
now this is going to become like the
Streisand Effect no one has much heard
what I have said so far my podcast is
pretty small time but there's been many
cases like this where people have been
arrested for free speech of fences and
all of them appear to have gone viral
not because I'm going to make it go
viral I would never do such a thing but
now like all those other cases this one
will go viral because of what you are
doing right now it's going to go viral
and so what I have said not heard so far
by very many people will now be heard by
very many people it'll be heard far and
wide and so you yourselves dear officers
of the constabulary you too will go
viral and you will be on the wrong side
of history and this will go to court so
yep arrest me and take me away and we'll
have our day in court and what I said
will be said there too and reported in
the media and your names will be
published alongside mine and people will
decide who is the real criminal here as
famous as I may become
for going viral for having said the
wrong thing your names two officers will
be in the media you will go famous for
having arrested someone for merely
saying something when there are genuine
crimes going on in the form of assaults
and murders and so on and you're not
doing those things you're not preventing
those things you're not out helping the
community as you should be so off we go
if that's what you still want if I
haven't convinced you yet and we'll see
how the court case goes and what the
court of public opinion thinks and what
social media thinks not merely of me but
of you personally as well okay so that's
what I would say that's end quote so to
speak
it's a lot to remember but you can
remember to say something like that as a
podcaster I absolutely know that I would
say something like that and I would hope
that the humanity and reasonableness of
the police would make them second guess
themselves so that before they even got
to the vehicle they'd take the handcuffs
off and go okay look this is a warning
please don't say it again and I would
say okay no worries I'll never say it
again and I'm sorry for my mistake thank
you so much and you know we'd go back to
our business and then I'd be petitioning
politicians about what happened I would
be asking people to change the law as I
do in my own little way here I rail
against these ridiculous laws in the
case of the lesbian Nana absolute
abrogation of community policing of the
peel principles of everything that is
supposed to be what policing is about
that 16 year old distressed girl should
not have been placed through that
because there other things to consider
other than the hurt feelings of the
officer in that case everyone was
distressed and no one had the presence
of mine to make a better argument than
what was made of course I understand
that and perhaps no argument would have
been effective this was seven police
officers of arresting a 16 year old girl
that's excessive force by any metric
especially in the United Kingdom the
United Kingdom so that that that's a
special case the people there the
citizens there that were being arrested
they were in genuine distress you know
if I was arrested I wouldn't be in that
much distress because I'm not a a
relatively helpless 16 year old girl in
the face of seven large police officers
but for me and for you perhaps basically
if you can get that point across maybe
just maybe the rest won't go ahead and
charges won't be laid and importantly
importantly things won't escalate
perhaps because
who knows like you you watch those some
of these this footage that's coming out
of Britain which appears to be terrible
on this worst even than Australia that
Australia is terrible especially the
state of Victoria
it seems like the hurt feelings of
British police and Victorian police are
being elevated above the very real
mental anguish and fragility of children
the entire premise is the officer had
her feelings hurt by being compared to a
lesbian Nana so hurt feelings are the
thing that that are being elevated here
that it it's hate speech and you
shouldn't be committing hate speech but
then what are the police doing in
arresting the child and in saying they
don't care that she's autistic that at
one point the mother said she's autistic
you know this is why she's hitting
herself in the face when she's being
arrested because she's autistic she's
clearly more distressed than the average
person would be under those
circumstances far more distressed and so
isn't that some sort of crime so there
has to be some I don't know a set of
Standards or regulations the police
normally would be conforming to in order
to enact an arrest like that but not so
in this case I don't know I don't know
the law here I am complaining about what
the law is but this entire movement this
work movement the work movement that's
driving things like hate speech it's
supposed to be all a concern about
Mental Health
but it's the mental health of police
that are being elevated above the mental
health of the citizenry but but mental
health is about emotions and the
emotions of the police should be
distilled out the police are supposed to
ignore their own personal emotions as
far as possible and apply the law
dispassionately was it dispassionate in
this particular case no because it was
the police officer themselves who had
the hurt feeling they shouldn't have a
hurt feeling the hurt feelings of police
should be a distant second
to the hurt feelings of the citizens
that they're arresting hurt feelings
shouldn't come into this but if we're
going to make these comparisons that's
the ridiculous comparison to make that's
it short one for today I just wanted to
make that PSA but hopefully people get
something out of it in any other
podcasters out there or people who have
like many of my followers Twitter
accounts YouTube accounts they say
things in public and increasingly there
is this glacial incremental push towards
transgressions of free speech as being
of prime importance to people and they
shouldn't be they shouldn't be part of
the legal system this is a perversion of
Enlightenment values an absolute
perversion of the tradition of criticism
that I talk about it shouldn't be there
there shouldn't be hate speech laws end
of Full Stop credit to Jeremy Allen
my own personal living Douglas Murray
for much of the material in this episode
Jeremy has little to no social media
presence except the kind of novelty
Twitter account you can see here at j e
m j m c a worth a follow as I encourage
him to post more even if he's off the
wall one-liners you'll find there Jeremy
is a polyglot linguist he's a scholar
with degrees in Asian and Korean studies
among other things
and is highly knowledgeable about
history geography politics and music
with an actual Flair for comedy in other
words all the things I'm not good at in
an upcoming more lengthy episode I'll be
diving into some Korean and cultural
analysis among other things all made
possible only with Jeremy's help perhaps
I can coach him on screen or on mic a
little more at some point but for now
credit to him for
when to waive your right to silence
which as we say is not legal advice and
really is speaking of novelty is just a
novelty thing that might have the effect
of appealing to the better nature of
police who do of course in these
situations have the power to decide
whether to actually press charges and
pursue you through the court system in
Australia at least this is the case so
of course it's important to be aware of
the laws Customs practices of the police
in your own jurisdiction and whether
these tactics that we've talked about
during this podcast more broadly are
likely to dig yourself into a deeper
hole what I've done and what Jeremy has
done here is mainly object to the laws
themselves rather than saying what the
police must do in these situations as a
matter of legality I am of course a
strong proponent of the idea that
officers of the law must actually
enforce the law but at the same time
those officers are the first line of
defense and actually judging whether a
law has been broken it seems to me like
telling an officer quote you look like
my lesbian Nana end quote is not for
example hate speech
but that's open to interpretation and
the police are welcome to interpret
whether or not that constitutes hate
speech as everything I've said here now
today in this episode is likewise not
hate speech in the jurisdiction of New
South Wales even if we do have hate
crime and hate incident laws that the
New South Wales police say they take
very seriously that's what they say on
their website the actual law in the
jurisdictions under which I am
personally subject right now uh come in
two forms the state law in New South
Wales and the federal law of Australia
the state law in New South Wales is the
anti-discrimination act 1977 New South
Wales which was amended in 1989 and that
Amendment meant that New South Wales
became the first state to make it quote
unlawful for a person by a Public Act to
incite hatred towards serious contempt 4
or severe ridicule of a person or group
on the grounds of race end quote the
amendment also created a criminal
offense for quote inciting hatred
contempt or severe ridicule towards a
person or group on the ground of race by
threatening physical harm towards people
or their property or inciting others to
threaten such harm homosexual
vilification is also prohibited Under
the Umbrella of the anti-discrimination
ACT end quote federally I am also
subject to section
474.17 of the criminal code which makes
it an offense to quote user Carriage
service such as the internet in omano
which reasonable persons would regard as
menacing harassing or offensive end
quote which is rather Broad and also in
open to interpretation there are also
laws of precedent federally that come to
bear on this but the law itself is of
course a complex topic and this podcast
is one about philosophy and Science in
the main it's not a podcast about the
legal system perhaps one day I'll get a
lawyer on to talk about all of this but
as I say at this point in every episode
until next time bye-bye
[Music]
foreign